---
title: Mtg 5 &bull; CS-280 (202010)
breadcrumb: 5 (21-Jan-20)
mtg_nbr: 5
total_meet: 26
mtg_date: 21-Jan-20
layout: bg-image
focus:
- ka: SP
  ku: 02-Analytical-Tools
---

{% include meetings/pagination.html %}
<div class="card">
  <h1 class="text-center card-header lightcthru">
    {{ page.mtg_date | date: '%a-%d-%b-%Y' }}
  </h1>
  <div class="card-body">
    {% include meetings/focus.html %}

    {% include meetings/admin-0-open.html %}
    {% include meetings/ul-1-close.html %}

    {% include meetings/quest-0-open.html %}
    {% include meetings/ul-1-close.html %}

    {% include meetings/outline-0-open.html %}
    <li>
      "Once something is on a computer, it can replicate and move around the world in a heartbeat. Making a million perfect copies takes but an instant — copies of things we want everyone in the world to see, and also copies of things that weren’t meant to be copied at all." (page 3)
    </li>
    <li>
      7 Koans of Bits (“koans” because they are paradoxes, like the Zen verbal puzzles that provoke meditation and enlightenment). Oversimplifications and over-generalizations. Do they still "describe a world that is developing but hasn’t yet fully emerged."?

      <ol>
       <li>It’s All Just Bits</li>
       <li>Perfection Is Normal</li>
       <li>There Is Want in the Midst of Plenty</li>
       <li>Processing Is Power</li>
       <li>More of the Same Can Be a Whole New Thing</li>
       <li>Nothing Goes Away</li>
       <li>Bits Move Faster Than Thought</li>
       </ol>
    </li>
    <li>
    "The digital explosion has thrown a lot of things up for grabs and we all have a stake in who does the grabbing. The way the technology is offered to us, the way we use it, and the consequences of the vast dissemination of digital information are matters not in the hands of technology experts alone. Governments and corporations and universities and other social institutions have a say. And ordinary citizens, to whom these institutions are accountable, can influence their decisions. Important choices are made every year, in government offices and legislatures, in town meetings and police stations, in the corporate offices of banks and insurance companies, in the purchasing departments of chain stores and pharmacies. We all can help raise the level of discourse and understanding. We can all help ensure that technical decisions are taken in a context of ethical standards."
    </li>
    <li>
    VIDEO:
    <a target="_blank" {%comment%}_{%endcomment%}
    href="https://www.ted.com/talks/naomi_oreskes_why_we_should_trust_scientists?language=en">
      Why We Should Trust Scientists
    </a>
    </li>
    <li>
    <a target="_blank" {%comment%}_{%endcomment%}
    href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/national-archives-exhibit-blurs-images-critical-of-president-trump/2020/01/17/71d8e80c-37e3-11ea-9541-9107303481a4_story.html">
      National Archives exhibit blurs images critical of President Trump
    </a>
    </li>

    {% include meetings/ul-1-close.html %}

    {% include meetings/concluding-0-open.html %}
    {% include meetings/ul-1-close.html %}

    {% include meetings/annotations.html %}

    {% include meetings/media.html mtg_media=joff_id mtg=page.mtg_nbr %}
  </div>
</div>
