---
title: "Testing, Triangles, and Transformations"
marks: 7
aid: IG02
rubric:
- crit: WebGL2 Programming
  wt: 5
  l3: Code functions as required and code is easily readable. Comments well written and explain rationale.
  l2: Code functions as required but code is not so easily readable. Comments well written but do not fully explain rationale.
  l1: Completed but code does not function as required. Comments not consistently done.
  l0: Not completed. Little to no comments in code.
- crit: Testing
  wt: 1
  l3: 
  l2:
  l1: 
  l0: 
- crit: Transformation
  wt: 1
  l3: 
  l2:
  l1: 
  l0: 
---
### {{ page.title }}

#### WebGL2 Program

Write a WebGL2 program (HTML and JavaScript) that generates a 3D Sierpiński's Tetrahedron and builds an opaque (not wireframe) container around it that encloses the tetrahedron. This container should have a lid that opens (while being connected to the rest of the container along a common edge). Create a means to open the lid with an animation and to show that the tetrahedron is inside. Here is a [sample tetrahedron from the textbook code](https://interactivecomputergraphics.com/8E/Code/02/gasket4.html). You may use the sample code discussed in class and the [315 lab](https://www.labs.cs.uregina.ca/315/WebGL2/Lab3/) as a starting point for your work but remember to acknowledge your sources!

* your HTML should include some controls to open (and close) the lid and to show that the tetrahedron is inside the container.
* your code should use different colours for different pieces.
* you should comment your code, explain the WebGL2 functions used, and indicate your sources of inspiration (and code) that you are submitting. Be clear about what you have done and don't take credit for someone else's work.

#### Testing

Devise and describe tests to ensure:

* that the 3 vertices of a triangle do not lie on the same line (are not co-linear)
* that the 4 vertices of a quadrilateral are co-planar

This is not intended to be a programming question.

#### Transformation

In two dimensions, we can specify a line by the equation y = mx + b, where m is the slope of the line and b is the point where it intercepts the y axis. Find an affine transformation that reflects two dimensional points about this line. Given a point P = (x, y), derive a transformation matrix M such that P' = M x P is the reflected image of P. Note that if P is on this line, P' == P

This is not intended to be a programming question.

#### Submission

Submit all your files in a single zip archive. The contents of your archive should include all the files needed to run your code (including copies of the Common files). Include a README file at the top level of your archive that explains where to find things. You should use the textbook's convention of putting the shaders in your HTML file.
{% include grading/main.html %}
