---
title: "Fly-by"
marks: 7
aid: IG03
rubric:
- crit: WebGL2 Programming
  wt: 7
  l3: Code functions as required and code is easily readable. Comments well written and explain rationale.
  l2: Code functions as required but code is not so easily readable. Comments well written but do not fully explain rationale.
  l1: Completed but code does not function as required. Comments not consistently done.
  l0: Not completed. Little to no comments in code.
---
### {{ page.title }}

#### WebGL2 Program

Write a WebGL2 program (HTML and JavaScript) that builds on your code from Assignment 2 ([code is provided if you did not complete Assignment 2](https://www2.cs.uregina.ca/~hepting/teaching/CS-315+733/202430/code/Assignment2Sample.zip)), add some other boxes (or other objects) to the scene then add the ability for the camera to fly around the scene in 2 ways:

1. following a straight line, have the camera look down at the scene and update the point at which you are looking as you move along the line. Keep the same relationship between camera (eye point) and the point you are looking at as you move along the line: say your camera starts at location at (0,5,0) and ends at (0,5,-10) then your camera might start looking at (0,0,-1) and end looking at (0,0,-11). The height should be constant and allow you to fly over your scene at a comfortable distance (without hitting it).

1. following a circular spiral path, have the camera always looking at the centre of your scene (say (cx,0,cz)). Start your camera's descent from a comfortable height (x,h,z) and a distance (r) from the centre (cx,h,cz). Make one or more complete passes to reach a height of (h/2) so that the camera stops at (x,h/2,z).

Provide an interface that allows the fly-by option to be selected and the parameters to be adjusted. See [this example for interface ideas](https://www2.cs.uregina.ca/~hepting/teaching/CS-315+733/202430/code/2XF-2D-recursive-pts.html), which you can use as a starting point for your work but remember to acknowledge your sources!

* your HTML should include some controls to select the fly-by option (1 or 2) and allow the parameters to be set for each one.
* your code should use different colours.
* you should comment your code, explain the WebGL2 functions used, and indicate your sources of inspiration (and code) that you are submitting. Be clear about what you have done and don't take credit for someone else's work.

#### Submission

Submit all your files in a single zip archive. The contents of your archive should include all the files needed to run your code (including copies of the Common files). Include a README file at the top level of your archive that explains where to find things. You should use the textbook's convention of putting the shaders in your HTML file.
{% include grading/main.html %}
