---
title: "Light it Up"
marks: 7
aid: IG04
rubric:
- crit: WebGL2 Programming
  wt: 7
  l3: Code functions as required and code is easily readable. Comments well written and explain rationale.
  l2: Code functions as required but code is not so easily readable. Comments well written but do not fully explain rationale.
  l1: Completed but code does not function as required. Comments not consistently done.
  l0: Not completed. Little to no comments in code.
---
### {{ page.title }}

#### WebGL2 Program

Write a WebGL2 program (HTML and JavaScript) that builds on your code from Assignment 3. For fly-by option 1 (straight line), move the light with the camera and for fly-by option 2 (circular spiral), the light should be stationary. Add interface controls for the parameters of the lighting and shading. You can use the same material for your whole scene. See this [example for interface ideas](https://www2.cs.uregina.ca/~hepting/teaching/CS-315+733/202430/code/2XF-2D-recursive-pts.html), which you can use as a starting point for your work but remember to acknowledge your sources!

* your HTML should include some controls to select the fly-by option (1 or 2) and allow the parameters, including lighting and shading, to be set for each one
* your code should use different colours.
* you should comment your code, explain the WebGL2 functions used, and indicate your sources of inspiration (and code) that you are submitting. Be clear about what you have done and don't take credit for someone else's work.

#### Submission

Submit all your files in a single zip archive. The contents of your archive should include all the files needed to run your code (including copies of the Common files). Include a README file at the top level of your archive that explains where to find things. You should use the textbook's convention of putting the shaders in your HTML file.
{% include grading/main.html %}